>> Jon Kuperman: So,
touching on this legal landscape and
this is something I had mentioned earlier,
that's changing a lot and
has changed a lot over the past few years.
So for today I went back and
forth on this a lot because every country
has their own kind of situation right now.
But since we're in the US giving
this talk right now live,
this will be a little bit US focused
as we go through the legal stuff.
But there are strong parallels between
all of the United States laws on
accessibility and the EU and
the UK and things like that, so
this largely applies
anywhere that you are.
So we have the [COUGH] ADA,
the Americans with Disabilities Act and
web accessibility has been but
is a legal requirement under that act.
Lawsuits and regulations are increasing,
we'll get into some of the numbers next.
But the idea being that an inaccessible
website can be subject to these
regulations and non compliance can
result in a lot of negatives like fines,
lawsuits, reputational damage.
So the key laws and standards to be aware
of, we have the ADA Title I and II, so
government and business websites
need to adhere to these things.
We've got section 508, so all federal
agencies must comply with these things,
that's even stricter.
And then the way that we do compliance
is through the standards body,
which we'll talk about later, but
the W3C has WCAG and level AA compliance.
Again, we'll get into
the nitty-gritty of all this stuff,
but it's the current standard for
web accessibility and
often what these government legislations
use for determining compliance.
And last year the department of Justice
in the US made the compliance a lot more
explicit.
What you have to adhere to, what
the punishments are if you don't, and so
we've seen a huge increase
in these lawsuits.
And I think it's another area where
being an accessibility expert can really
help you in your career,
at your company, at your team, etc.
So I saw this statistic that I
thought was really interesting, so
in 2023 lawsuits related to
inaccessible websites rose 62%,
I couldn't find 2024 statistics, but
I would imagine it is still on the rise.
Some big websites like Whirlpool were sued
for barriers on their website as well as
the famous Katz's Deli in New York
which was fined 20,000 for violations.
And these can reach up to
$150,000 per violation, so
this is nowhere near about
like fear mongering for
accessibility, but I think hope that it
helps drive through the importance of it.
As the legal requirement becomes more and
more prevalent,
the industries that the ADA marks as
high risk for these legal requirements.
Are E-commerce, finance and banking,
hospitality and restaurants,
and healthcare.
Which sounds like a list of like four or
five things,
but I do find it largely covers
most of the things that we work on.
And another note that I have is there's
quite a few SAS startups out there that
offer like, make your website accessible
with just our overlay that says it's not
accessible move on.
Those largely are not working to protect
from a legal standard, a lot of websites
with those overlays that they pay for
are not preventing the lawsuits.
Cool, so how to stay compliant do these
audits that we'll cover in this course,
making sure that your website is
WCAG2 at least AA standard compliant.
Test with real users wherever possible or
as a developer using assistive technology,
which we'll do in this course.
Use automated tools where you can so
there's like lighthouse, axe, wave.
These all provide audits you can
run through your dev tools or
through your CICD pipeline or
through your ID and
they can help you just make
sure you stay compliant.
The last thing is especially for
kind of like leadership or if you're
engineering that works closely with
design, or if you're on a design team.
Making sure that you train
teams on inclusive design,
which we will talk about.
This is a little cheeky, AKA take this
course, hopefully I cover the most
important things that you need to know
to stay compliant during today's course.